Skip to content
~Server Startup
/en/deconstructing
ES
Deconstructing this website
This page explains how the website you are reading is built. Not out of vanity: it is how we work, applied to our own shop window. If someone tells you how they work and cannot show you the workshop, be suspicious.
The tour goes downwards. From the point of presence that answered your request to the commit that authorised these words there are six layers. None of them is interesting for the technology it uses. They are interesting for what they decide, and for what they refuse to let through.
The architecture
There are no servers to look after, and that is the least of it. What matters is where the response you are reading was made: at the edge, in a nearby point of presence, on Cloudflare Workers. The cache sits in front of the worker, so on a hit the code never runs at all.
Below that, the CMS is not a separate service to call over the network. EmDash runs inside the same worker, with content in D1, images in R2 and sessions in KV. One process serves the page and the editing panel alike.
And at the bottom of the descent there is no database: there is a text file in Git. It is the only layer a human writes by hand, which makes it the only one that can lie.
L5
the edge
Workers · cache in front
A hit returns the page without running any code.
L4
the door
middleware
Decides what may be cached and adds the security headers.
L3
the render
Astro SSR
Builds the HTML in the same worker that took the request.
L2
the CMS
EmDash
Runs inside the worker: no external service to call.
L1
the data
D1 · R2 · KV
Content, images and sessions, at the edge.
L0
the origin
seed.json in Git
The only thing a human writes. Everything else derives from it.
The request comes in at the top. The only layer a person writes lives at the bottom, which is why it is the only one reviewed by hand.
Content as code
Every text on this site lives in seed/seed.json — 43 entries, two locales, 353 KB — plus the service bodies as markdown files where the filename is the slug and the directory is the locale. There is no state a rebuild cannot reproduce.
That is not a claim, it is what continuous integration does before every merge: it boots the stack from nothing, seeds the database from that file and serves the whole site. If the rebuild did not reproduce the site, there would be no site to review.
Caching inherits the same discipline. A page is only cached if it asked to be, and publishing purges by tag: the entry is invalidated and so are the pages that embed it. One gap is worth saying out loud: menus and site settings emit no event when published, so their staleness is bounded by the one-hour TTL. A limit stated plainly is a limit somebody can fix.
➜ serverstartup.io rebuild --from-nothing
✓ database created, empty
✓ seeds applied: 43 entries, two locales
✓ site served: 26 routes
✓ rendered copy: matches the frozen baseline
╰─ done. The rebuild is the proof, and it runs before every merge.
The agents
A model writing the first draft is neither impressive nor mysterious — anyone can do that. What decides whether it is serious is who has authority over what.
The agent can propose anything and merge nothing. The gates can refuse and cannot write. The human can do both, which makes them the only party who can be wrong on the record. The house voice is not a prompt in somebody's history either: it is a versioned artefact, with its forbidden-word list and its policy on anglicisms, reviewed the way code is reviewed.
Before a person is asked anything, the branch goes through fourteen checks. These refuse things a human review cannot see:
Non-citable names: a client who must not appear in a public repository, caught before the mirror publishes them.
Copy outside the CMS: a label that exists in one locale only, or a sentence hardcoded into a template.
Colours outside the system: a colour literal or a new width — which is how seven different measures came back once.
Caching in the wrong place: a call placed after the headers have left, which caches nothing and looks like it does.
Copy that changes by itself: the rendered text of 26 routes is frozen; a different word with no decision behind it fails the build.
Accessibility and contrast: keyboard traversal, reflow at 320 pixels and W3C validation.
A gate is only worth having if it can fail. One that finds nothing and one that cannot find anything look identical from outside, so each is proven by breaking it on purpose before its green is trusted. And the last door is not automatic: production is deployed by hand, and that gesture is the approval.
agent/draft → main
Open
−
publish without anyone reading it
+
Non-citable names: a client who must not appear in a public repository, caught before the mirror publishes them.
+
Copy outside the CMS: a label that exists in one locale only, or a sentence hardcoded into a template.
+
Colours outside the system: a colour literal or a new width — which is how seven different measures came back once.
+
Caching in the wrong place: a call placed after the headers have left, which caches nothing and looks like it does.
+
Copy that changes by itself: the rendered text of 26 routes is frozen; a different word with no decision behind it fails the build.
+
Accessibility and contrast: keyboard traversal, reflow at 320 pixels and W3C validation.
✓ ci/citability
✓ ci/cms-text
✓ ci/tokens
✓ ci/cache
✓ ci/copy
✓ ci/a11y
✓ ci/lighthouse
✔ Approved
Signed-off-by: a person with a name
Merge
The numbers
On a page about rigour, an undated number is the worst possible place for drift. So there are two kinds of figure here and they never mix: the threshold continuous integration demands before it will merge, which is permanent and lives in a file in the repository; and the measurement, which carries its date beside it.
The threshold: performance above 95, and 100 in accessibility, best practices and SEO, taken as the median of three runs under mobile emulation. The measurement on 24 August 2026, against the production build served locally: 100 across all four categories on all five templates measured, with largest contentful paint at 1.1 seconds on this page. We quote the median rather than the best run, because a single run drops on its own and means nothing.
Thresholds · continuous integration
REQUIRED
performance
> 95
accessibility
100
best practices
100
SEO
100
routes with frozen copy
26
checks per branch
14
The workshop, in plain sight
The repository is public and syncs on every push, whole history, unfiltered. Publishing like that has a cost, and that cost is exactly what forces the non-citable-names guard to exist: when you show everything, what must not get out has to be encoded at rest, not hidden.
Code, seeds, skills, gates and deployment workflows: it is all there. Look inside and tell us if you would do it better. You probably would, and that is how good conversations start.
SERVERSTARTUP.io
assembly manual · ES/EN · sheet 1 of 1
PARTS INCLUDED
Workers + WAF ×1
the shield
D1 + R2 ×1
data and media
Astro SSR + EmDash ×1
render and CMS
seeds ×43
the whole corpus
copywriting skill ×1
the voice with a blacklist
agent ×N
drafts never decides
repository ×1
look inside
engineers ×3
not included: already there
ASSEMBLY
01
write the seeds
02
the skill sets the voice
03
the agent drafts
04
human review ✋
05
pull request and merge
06
deploy to the edge
⚠ Warnings
Do not assemble without step 04. The agent drafts, the human signs.
Step 03 never merges. Ever.
ℹ Assembly data
Estimated time: one afternoon and its commits.
Hardware included: zero handoffs.
View the repository →
Let's talk, engineer to engineer.
Bring the problem as it is. You'll hear back from the person who'll write the code.
Tell us about your project
references
Areas of expertise
E-commerce
CDN, WAF & Edge Security
Big Data & Cloud Analytics
Systems Integration
Greenfield development
Artificial Intelligence
We are partners
Contact
About us
Deconstructing this website
Email us
Tell us about your project
© 2026 Server Startup, S.L.
Legal notice
Privacy policy
