CDN, WAF & Edge Security — Server Startup
Skip to content
~Server Startup/en/cdn-waf-edge-security-cloudflare
ES
$ find . -name " " search enter search·esc close
✕
$ find . -name " " search enter search
E-commerce
Systems Integration
Big Data & Cloud Analytics
CDN, WAF & Edge Security
Greenfield development
Artificial Intelligence
Home
About us
References
Contact
Deconstructing
AI
Tap the die
CDN, WAF & Edge Security
Official Cloudflare partners since 2019. We audit, migrate and run CDN, WAF and edge security, mostly for e-commerce.
Audit your edge
We've worked with the Cloudflare platform since 2017, two years before becoming an official partner. We audit, migrate and tune Enterprise and Business accounts, mostly for retail and e-commerce.
Your Cloudflare is configured. Are you sure it's configured right? In many organizations nobody dares touch the WAF rules. They block something. Nobody remembers what.
We know why each rule is there, because we wrote them, we version them with Terraform, and we keep them running in production.
WAF ≠ security
A firewall is not a security strategy, it's one part of it. We configure Cloudflare as architecture, and every switch on this panel is there for a reason.
Security · serverstartup.ioACTIVE
PoPs serving your site300+
Workers · latency to the user<50 ms
Generic templates0
WAF rules, tuned to youMatched to your actual attack surface. OWASP Top 10, DDoS, bots. No generic templates.
Cache and CDNYour origin breathes and response times become predictable. Black Friday included.
Zero-downtime migrationsFrom Akamai or whatever you run today, without stopping the store.
Everything in TerraformThe whole configuration as code, versioned and reviewed. Nothing depends on anyone's memory.
Logic next to the userWorkers in 300+ cities, under 50 ms away. We shipped our first ones in 2018.
Daily watchAlerts and checks an engineer reviews every morning. The same engineer who wrote your rules.
«Set up by someone who left» modeOff since 2019. We wrote the rules and we maintain them.
Whoever configures it, maintains it
We don't set up Cloudflare and disappear. We watch the traffic, adjust rules as attack patterns change, and answer personally when something degrades.
We've deployed Cloudflare for:
The platform doesn't end at CDN and WAF. Zero Trust, Access, Stream, R2. We help you decide which pieces fit, and which don't.
This very site runs on Workers, D1 and R2, behind the same WAF we run for clients. We take it apart, piece by piece, in Deconstructing this website.
1 team = 6 verticals = Ø 0 handoffs
Let's talk, engineer to engineer.
Bring the problem as it is. You'll hear back from the person who'll write the code.
Tell us about your project
References
Areas of expertise
E-commerce
CDN, WAF & Edge Security
Big Data & Cloud Analytics
Systems Integration
Greenfield development
Artificial Intelligence
We are partners
Contact
About us
Deconstructing this website
Email us
Tell us about your project
© 2026 Server Startup, S.L. Legal notice Privacy policy
