Skip to content
~Server Startup
/en/systems-integration
ES
Systems Integration
We're not “PowerPoint architects”: what we plan is what we ship. No overpromising — the objectively necessary and viable. A glove, not a hammer, with homogeneity, methodology, testability and absolute observability.
Let's talk integration
Moving data from A to B is the easy part. The real engineering challenge is maintaining operational continuity in ecosystems where your ERP, SaaS platforms, and untouchable legacy systems coexist. We approach every flow with enterprise integration patterns (EIP) and one rule: absolute observability. If a flow fails, the trace reveals exactly where and why before it impacts the business.
We also connect the operational systems with the analytical ones, closing the data loop.
Connector ≠ Integrated system
➜ serverstartup.io integrate --erp --storefront --warehouse
✓ eip patterns & orchestration — Complex routing with Apache Camel, deployed on Karaf (OSGi isolation) or Quarkus. We implement idempotent consumers with no "black boxes." When a connector doesn't exist, we write it. We maintain our own Camel component for the Pebble template engine.
✓ async messaging & events — Fault-tolerant backbones using ActiveMQ Artemis, or managed services like Google Cloud Pub/Sub and Cloudflare Queues.
✓ serverless compute — Elastic integration logic using Google Cloud Run or directly at the edge with Cloudflare Workers.
✓ data engineering & etl — Heavy data movement with Apache Hop or Talend for batch processing, and unified pipelines using Google Cloud Dataflow.
✓ contract-first design — The contract comes before the code (Contract First, OpenAPI), with OAuth 2.0 and mTLS designed in, not patched on later.
✓ api governance — Secure exposure via API Management solutions (like Gravitee) or Cloudflare API Shield.
✓ observability — Centralized logs and metrics via the ELK stack (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana). Exact traceability for every single message, end-to-end.
➜ serverstartup.io observe --end-to-end
│ A simple point-to-point script is fragile.
│ True professional integration decouples systems: it routes intelligently, transforms on the fly, and isolates failures.
│ If the ERP goes down, orders queue up in standby and process when it returns.
│ Zero data loss.
╰─ INFO … Server startup in [2019] ms
Not PowerPoint. Not copy-paste.
We design what can be built, and we build it ourselves. No frills. We study each case and adopt the solution that fits it best. Patterns are the shared vocabulary; the topology is drawn on your systems and your load windows.
AI speeds things up. Patterns call the shots.
More and more of our integration work is built with AI. The difference between speed and debt is the frame. An unconstrained agent solves the same problem a different way each time, and that bill arrives with the first incident.
We practice spec-driven development. The specification comes first (data contract, pattern, error policy). Then the code, generated inside that perimeter and signed by the engineer who reviews it. Zero free rein. Each flow reads like the one before it. It's why our AI vertical starts with the systems, not the agent.
Who builds it, answers for it
"Your integration works... except when it matters."
Stock doesn't match, orders duplicate, and nobody quite knows why. We've seen it one too many times.
The senior team that designs the topology on the whiteboard is the exact same one that writes the code, fine-tunes the brokers, and picks up the phone if something breaks on a Friday at six (though they break less and less 😉). We know the business as well as we know the implementation. We know what a duplicated order costs mid-campaign.
If it breaks, we don't open a ticket: we fix it.
1 team =
6 verticals = Ø
0
handoffs
Let's talk, engineer to engineer.
Bring the problem as it is. You'll hear back from the person who'll write the code.
Tell us about your project
references
~Server Startup
Backend, integration, data and edge. The same three senior engineers from start to finish, from Getxo, since 2019.
The house
About us
Deconstructing this website
References
Contact
Email us
Tell us about your project
we are partners
© 2026 Server Startup, S.L.
Legal notice
Privacy policy
Accessibility
